---
title: Secondary 1 Critical Inquiry Project
permalink: /key-programmes/s1cip/
description: ""
---
How might we help our students see connections between different subjects of study and learn to tackle multi-layered real-world challenges using skills and approaches in these subject areas? Guided by this endeavour and adapting Tomlinson’s Parallel Curriculum Model (PCM), we studied the interconnections between the syllabus outcomes and school-based curriculum outcomes to develop Beatty’s Design Inquiry Model. The model combines the inquiry-based approach in Humanities, design thinking framework in Applied Learning and core communication skills in English Language. Using this model, the Critical Inquiry Project was developed to provide students with the learning experience of addressing global issues, i.e. water resource management, through interdisciplinary perspectives and become advocates of change. Through engaging the Secondary One students in this inquiry project, we aim to deepen our students’ critical thinking skills, communication skills and collaborative capacities, in order to lay a strong foundation for their learning in secondary school.

To help our students connect the dots between the content and skills in the various disciplines, The team compromising the Humanities Department, Mathematics Department, English Language Department and Applied Learning Programmed (ALP) Department identified the salient tenets and insights of different disciplines, and connected the respective learning outcomes. This supports the constructivist educational paradigm where learners make connections between what they already know with what they learn, make sense of the data and construct new knowledge to gain a deeper understanding of the concepts and skills.

 The Critical Inquiry Project starts off with an introduction to the inquiry question: How have human activities affected the water quality along Kallang River? From here, students made predictions and hypothesise, collaborated to gather data related to the inquiry question, such as the turbidity of the water in the waterways, which was helmed by the Geography unit in alignment with the Geographical Investigation. To help students make sense of the data, as well as how to represent the data accurately, the Mathematics Department came in to reinforce what they have learnt by introducing the students to data in the real world context. Having collected information and data, students then drew conclusions and answers to the inquiry questions. The Geography teachers then guided them to evaluate on their data collection process and reliability of the data. At this point, the ALP department introduced the Design Thinking approach based on what the students have investigated and taught them how to empathise with the needs of the stakeholders (i.e. users of the Kallang River) before ideating and brainstorming for solutions to protect and keep Kallang River clean. Finally, students then put together all their findings into a well-designed poster using what they have learnt regarding elements of an effective visual text and took on the role of environmental advocates to present their posters. This Critical Inquiry Project continues to be carried out as part of the school’s level activities week, where our Secondary One students engage in the project for an entire week.
 
<div align="center"><iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vSVTO_aqFh1qia7yOAWyNJsPYP-Y6IYx3u3AaFTOvTNbEq97HLIYJtX645QwtzhmTrdFCNOSg0he0H6/embed?start=true&amp;loop=true&amp;delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="640" height="389" allowfullscreen="true"></iframe></div>